# Mirror, mirror on the wall... Am I a critical thinker after all?

## Abstract

How many times have you looked back at a project, only to find a mix of technologies, architectural styles, patterns, and practices that somehow just don’t fit together? How often did you find yourself thinking: How did we get here? This is unmaintanable, maybe we should rewrite the whole thing. Sounds familiar? As tech professionals, we usually pride ourselves in our ability to think critically, because as part of our work we continuously tackle complex problems. But are we really critical thinkers? If so, how did we ever end up here? Which decisions led to this point? Were they made consciously? What decision-framework was used to avoid biases?

Over the last years of my career, I have applied a set of practices to decision-making that have steered me in the right direction by focussing on what matters. This didn't only affect my own decision-making, but also how I evaluate and challenge decisions made by others. In this session, I'll share my experiences and insights on the essential building blocks that improve critical thinking, help break through biases, and improve our intent and communication when making impactful decisions. You'll learn to ask the right questions and apply tactics to help identify assumptions, evaluate options objectively, and assess risk. You'll walk out of this session with actionable takeaways that will help strenghten your decisions in our complex and ever-changing technical landscape.
